about my candles and what makes them special.
I started Sigil Candles three years ago because I needed to put a name on a form for a bazaar I was attending. 
A Sigil is a rune of magical power. Sigils have appeared in basically all of my nerdy pursuits since I was a child. 
Dungeons and Dragons, Magic the Gathering, World of Warcraft, etc. etc. I picked the name because I liked it 
and I couldn't find any other companies named "Sigil Candles" on the internet. It was either that or Quick and Dirty,
but that name was taken by Jen Rowe years ago.

Anyway, I've been making candles for 16 years now. For the longest time I used paraffin wax because it was cheap and you 
could get giant chunks of it at a place on Columbia Blvd (Georgies! You can still get candle stuff there but it's 100x 
more expensive than ordering online). About seven years ago I switched from paraffin to soy wax because I wanted to 
recreate the nicer "Anthropologie" candles I was buying for my (at the time) wife for her birthday. She loved those 
candles so much, but fuck me, they were like $38 each. I thought for sure I could make my own that rivaled those. Turns
out it was a lot more complicated than I thought at the time.

For the next couple of years, I experimented with many different kinds of containers. I'm not sure if you know, but soy wax
has a very low melting point, so you can't make it in a mold or it will fall apart and melt into a puddle in like 2 hours, 
so it needs to be inside a container so it can keep its form.

So I went hunting for rare an interesting containers to make candles in. Most of them were purchased from the Goodwill Outlet.
It was so much fun hunting in those bins for shitty old glass containers and bringing them back to life. 

Pro-tip: When pouring soy wax into containers you will face a number of challenges.
1. Is this container meant to withstand the heat from a candle. Soy wax's melting point varies based on the compound you purchase,
but it typically puts out between 132° and 187° of heat and flimsy glass can just shatter on you. Even thicker glass can crack 
and break if there are imperfections in the glass due to its cooling process or if it's taken any abuse in its life.
2. The thick wick. Wick also comes in many different thicknesses, and some are flat braid vs square braided. This means each wick 
has a circumference of heat that will liquefy your wax. The problem is each container is different and a different wick must be 
tested in each container before you give it to someone because, again, it might shatter and light someone's house on fire.
3. Glass thickness. The thicker the glass, the more heat it can take, but if it's really thick, the glass absorbs the heat and 
the wax doesn't properly liquefy. This can create a pinched wick, or walls of wax down your candle called "tunneling."

So the problem with containers is you need to test them for a long long time with different wax, scent and wick to make sure 
your candle will properly burn all the way down without tunneling, pinching, or shattering.

So for this reason I started using BALL mason jars for my candles. They come in a variety of shapes and sizes, are uniform, and are
in keeping with my personal aesthetic.
Because I've been changing and upgrading my recipes over the last seven years (that's when I started using mason jars), I have gotten 
to a point where my candles are exactly what I always wanted them to be. A cheaper substitute for the expensive boutique candles we 
all spend too much money on.

In fact, I sell so many candles at bazaars and events because people get to see them burn and smell them. Because of the mason jar, 
and the low price point, people are hesitant to make a purchase initially. When you get to see and interact with the candles, however, 
your mind will be changed.

So why is that? What makes them special? I'll tell you!

The biggest thing is the quality of the ingredients. Every thing I purchase to
make candles is literally the most expensive ingredients you can buy. 
(Other than the containers ;) )
After I started making these candles, I could not believe my eyes when I saw 
what people were charging for them. Same ingredients, same scent, same wick, but
literally twice as expensive. In fact, some "local" candle companies add a 450% 
mark up for their candles because they look cute! My candles don't look cute. 

They are practical and they smell great!
Anyway let's start with the wax.

The wax I am currently using is called CB-135. It is a soy wax. Soy wax is a byproduct of the soy industry and is a 100% renewable resource.
CB-135 has a higher melting point (135°) than most soy wax on the market. Why is that important? Well, if a candle at a boutique 
store burns at 123° (the industry average), then it will be consumed on average 40% faster. The industry does that because when wax
pools, scent is released more quickly. So your house smells amazing, for 20 hours, then its gone.

My wax burns slower, in fact, my candles last a very long time compared to the industry average (My two candles sizes burn for
80 hours and 140 hours respectively).

The risk of a lower melting point is the candle wont liquefy as quickly or as completely, so the scent profile is lower.

I used to have this problem. My candles would BARELY stay lit. They would last for up to 240 hours but it wouldn't smell as nice.
The solution to this problem is because of my wick.


So the wick is super important as it, if you remember from before (there will be a test), it creates a circumference of heat that melts your candle. So if your square braid wick burns through 135° wax in a shape that is 2.5 inches in diameter your container needs to be approximately that size.
Over the years I have experimented with 11 different kinds of wick. Different sizes, shapes and even material. The goal was to burn all the way to the sides of the container (to avoid tunneling) without burning too hot (to avoid a candle that burns too fast).
Are you still with me?
So I figured it out. I found the right wick to go with the right wax to go in the right container.
The only thing left is scent and marketing. Now as you can probably notice, I don't have any marketing. I don't dress up my jars. I don't paint them or hot glue shit on them or anything. I used to! Lauren Mitchell really helped me make them look cute one Christmas. But it affected how much I could sell them for. And that price point is the biggest feature I offer (imo).
But scent! Oh scent! The most important, and most expensive part of making a candle. Candle scents are everywhere, and they are mostly chemically engineered and processed into an oil by product. And you can tell. Vanilla doesn't smell like vanilla. Lavender smells like a floor cleaner, and lemon smells like lysol. This is because natural scents (essential oils) are just so expensive to buy.
But I have to use the good shit! Every expensive candle on the market uses some form of natural scent, because it's the primary selling point for a candle. What does it smell like.
Thankfully for me, I have finally cultivated a relationship with a candle supply company in Seattle and have finally started to get pretty significant discounts on scents. It's absolutely necessary as some of these oils can be as much as $14 an ounce!!
So my scents! My scents are really, really great. Every time I see some skeptical person open up a jar at an event and smell it I wait for that moment. That moment where they cant believe it. They look at me and my stupid hat and my dumb mason jars and they can't believe it smells so good.
I LOVE THAT MOMENT.
There is an equation for scenting a candle. It has to go in at the right temperature (and each scent needs to be added at a DIFFERENT temperature), and you can only add so much to a candle. Otherwise the scented oil will not allow the soy wax to harden enough to burn. It will literally drown out the candle.
Lucky for me (and you) I have perfected the equation of scent to wax ratio. It's one of the only proprietary things I have, so I'm not going to tell you what it is, but it is the most scent I can put into a candle without breaking down its molecular structure.
I will talk about the scents I am offering this spring soon, but I'm going to do it in a different post.
That's pretty much it about the candles themselves. I want to write a little more about the business before I put this unbearably long post to bed.
Sigil Candles is a zero waste company. I recycle all glass containers from old customers (and give them a discount on their next purchase), and the only thing that remains from my candle is the wick clip at the bottom (which is 100% recyclable).
Sigil Candles uses ZERO chemicals, only wax and natural scent. There are a lot, A LOT of additives available for candlemaking. If you google "Vybar" you'll see what I mean. Hundreds of chemicals that people add to give them different effects. Mostly its for appearance and touch feel. None of it is necessary! It is all to help present a uniform LOOKING candle. The chemicals added by companies have not been tested for toxicity once airborne. I am not saying they are harmful, I am saying they are unnecessary and why take the risk?
Sigil Candles are made by hand. By me. And sometimes my four-year old. They are made to help me continue the dream of being a professional actor and stay at home father. With each candle you purchase, you are not only getting a great deal, you are helping me live the life I've always wanted. Dad by day, actor by night.
If you've made a purchase before, thank you. If you haven't, that's okay too! Like this post. Share it. Comment on it. Help me turn my zero dollar marketing budget into a business, hahaha!
Thanks for reading!